# Understanding the OCI concepts

During this workshop, you will handle a lot of components of Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) and some other technologies to support your development. All the references to the OCI resources needed are listed above. The information refers to the official [Oracle Cloud Documentation](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/).

The main concepts are found in the section [Key Concepts and Terminology](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/GSG/Concepts/concepts.htm), but are transcripted here for ease of reference.

## Tenancy

When you sign up for Oracle Cloud Infrastructure, Oracle creates a tenancy for your company, which is a secure and isolated partition within Oracle Cloud Infrastructure where you can create, organize, and administer your cloud resources.

## Regions and Availability Domain (AD)

Oracle Cloud Infrastructure is physically hosted in regions and availability domains. A region is a localized geographic area, and an availability domain is one or more data centers located within a region. A region is composed of one or more availability domains. Oracle Cloud Infrastructure resources are either region-specific, such as a virtual cloud network, or availability domain-specific, such as a compute instance.

Availability domains are isolated from each other, fault tolerant, and very unlikely to fail simultaneously or be impacted by the failure of another availability domain. When you configure your cloud services, use multiple availability domains to ensure high availability and to protect against resource failure. Be aware that some resources must be created within the same availability domain, such as an instance and the storage volume attached to it.

For more details, see [Regions and Availability Domains](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/General/Concepts/regions.htm).

### Compartment

Compartments allow you to organize and control access to your cloud resources. A compartment is a collection of related resources (such as instances, virtual cloud networks, block volumes) that can be accessed only by certain groups that have been given permission by an administrator. A compartment should be thought of as a logical group and not a physical container. When you begin working with resources in the Console, the compartment acts as a filter for what you are viewing.

When you sign up for Oracle Cloud Infrastructure, Oracle creates your tenancy, which is the root compartment that holds all your cloud resources. You then create additional compartments within the tenancy (root compartment) and corresponding policies to control access to the resources in each compartment. When you create a cloud resource such as an instance, block volume, or cloud network, you must specify to which compartment you want the resource to belong.

Ultimately, the goal is to ensure that each person has access to only the resources they need.

For more details, see [Understanding Compartments](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/GSG/Concepts/settinguptenancy.htm#Understa).

## OCID

Every Oracle Cloud Infrastructure resource has an Oracle-assigned unique ID called an Oracle Cloud Identifier (OCID). This ID is included as part of the resource's information in both the Console and API.

For details about the syntax of an OCID, see [Resource Identifiers](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/General/Concepts/identifiers.htm).

## Networking

### Virtual Cloud Network (VCN)

A virtual cloud network is a virtual version of a traditional network - including subnets, route tables, and gateways - on which your instances run. A cloud network resides within a single region but includes all the region's availability domains. Each subnet you define in the cloud network can either be in a single availability domain or span all the availability domains in the region (recommended). You need to set up at least one cloud network before you can launch instances. You can configure the cloud network with an optional internet gateway to handle public traffic, and an optional IPSec VPN connection or FastConnect to securely extend your on-premises network.

A virtual, private network that you set up in Oracle data centers. It closely resembles a traditional network, with firewall rules and specific types of communication gateways that you can choose to use. A VCN resides in a single Oracle Cloud Infrastructure region and covers a single, contiguous IPv4 CIDR block of your choice. See [Allowed VCN Size and Address Range](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Network/Concepts/overview.htm#Allowed). The terms virtual cloud network, VCN, and cloud network are used interchangeably in this documentation. For more information, see [VCNs and Subnets](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Network/Tasks/managingVCNs.htm).

### Subnet

Subdivisions you define in a VCN (for example, 10.0.0.0/24 and 10.0.1.0/24). Subnets contain virtual network interface cards (VNICs), which attach to instances. Each subnet consists of a contiguous range of IP addresses that do not overlap with other subnets in the VCN. You can designate a subnet to exist either in a single or across an entire region (regional subnets are recommended). Subnets act as a unit of configuration within the VCN: All VNICs in a given subnet use the same route table, security lists, and DHCP options (see the definitions that follow). You can designate a subnet as either public or private when you create it. Private means VNICs in the subnet can't have public IP addresses. Public means VNICs in the subnet can have public IP addresses at your discretion. See [Access to the Internet](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Network/Concepts/overview.htm#Private).

### Security Lists

A security list acts as a virtual firewall for an instance, with ingress and egress rules that specify the types of traffic allowed in and out. Each security list is enforced at the VNIC level. However, you configure your security lists at the subnet level, which means that all VNICs in a given subnet are subject to the same set of security lists. The security lists apply to a given VNIC whether it's communicating with another instance in the VCN or a host outside the VCN.

Each subnet can have multiple security lists associated with it, and each list can have multiple rules (for the maximum number, see [Limits](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Network/Concepts/securityrules.htm#limits)). A packet in question is allowed if any rule in any of the lists allows the traffic (or if the traffic is part of an existing connection being tracked). There's a caveat if the lists happen to contain both stateful and stateless rules that cover the same traffic. For more information, see [Stateful Versus Stateless Rules](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Network/Concepts/securityrules.htm#stateful).

Security lists are regional entities. For limits related to security lists, see [Limits](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Network/Concepts/securityrules.htm#limits).

Security lists can control both IPv4 and IPv6 traffic. However, IPv6 addressing and related security list rules are currently supported only in the Government Cloud. For more information, see [IPv6 Addresses](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Network/Concepts/ipv6.htm).

### Security Rules

Virtual firewall rules for your VCN. They are ingress and egress rules that specify the types of traffic (protocol and port) allowed in and out of the instances. You can choose whether a given rule is stateful or stateless. For example, you can allow incoming SSH traffic from anywhere to a set of instances by setting up a stateful ingress rule with source CIDR 0.0.0.0/0, and destination TCP port 22. To implement security rules, you can use network security groups or security lists. A network security group consists of a set of security rules that apply only to the resources in that group. Contrast this with a security list, where the rules apply to all the resources in any subnet that uses the list. Your VCN comes with a default security list with default security rules. For more information, see [Security Rules](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Network/Concepts/securityrules.htm).

### Route Table

Virtual route tables for your VCN. They have rules to route traffic from subnets to destinations outside the VCN by way of gateways or specially configured instances. Your VCN comes with an empty default route table, and you can add custom route tables of your own. For more information, see [Route Tables](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Network/Tasks/managingroutetables.htm).

### Internet Gateway

Another optional virtual router that you can add to your VCN for direct internet access. For more information, see [Access to the Internet](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Network/Concepts/overview.htm#Private) and also [Scenario A: Public Subnet](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Network/Tasks/scenarioa.htm).

## Instance

An instance is a compute host running in the cloud. An Oracle Cloud Infrastructure compute instance allows you to utilize hosted physical hardware, as opposed to the traditional software-based virtual machines, ensuring a high level of security and performance.

### Compute

Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Compute lets you provision and manage compute hosts, known as instances. You can launch instances as needed to meet your compute and application requirements. After you launch an instance, you can access it securely from your computer, restart it, attach and detach volumes, and terminate it when you're done with it. Any changes made to the instance's local drives are lost when you terminate it. Any saved changes to volumes attached to the instance are retained.

Oracle Cloud Infrastructure offers both bare metal and virtual machine instances:

* Bare Metal: A bare metal compute instance gives you dedicated physical server access for highest performance and strong isolation.
* Virtual Machine: A virtual machine (VM) is an independent computing environment that runs on top of physical bare metal hardware. The virtualization makes it possible to run multiple VMs that are isolated from each other. VMs are ideal for running applications that do not require the performance and resources (CPU, memory, network bandwidth, storage) of an entire physical machine.

An Oracle Cloud Infrastructure VM compute instance runs on the same hardware as a bare metal instance, leveraging the same cloud-optimized hardware, firmware, software stack, and networking infrastructure.

Be sure to review [Best Practices for Your Compute Instance](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Compute/References/bestpracticescompute.htm) for important information about working with your Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Compute instance.

Oracle Cloud Infrastructure uses [Oracle Ksplice](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E52668_01/E39380/html/ol_about_ksplice.html) to apply important security and other critical kernel updates to the hypervisor hosts without a reboot.

For more details, see [Overview of the Compute Service](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Compute/Concepts/computeoverview.htm).

### Shape

In Compute, the shape specifies the number of CPUs and amount of memory allocated to the instance. Oracle Cloud Infrastructure offers shapes to fit various computing requirements. See the [list of compute shapes](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Compute/References/computeshapes.htm).

In Load Balancing, the shape determines the load balancer's total pre-provisioned maximum capacity (bandwidth) for ingress plus egress traffic. Available shapes include 100 Mbps, 400 Mbps, and 8000 Mbps.

## Storage

### Block Volume

A block volume is a virtual disk that provides persistent block storage space for Oracle Cloud Infrastructure instances. Use a block volume just as you would a physical hard drive on your computer, for example, to store data and applications. You can detach a volume from one instance and attach it to another instance without loss of data.

For more details, see [Overview of Block Volume](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Block/Concepts/overview.htm).

### Object Storage

Object Storage is a storage architecture that allow you to store and manage data as objects. Data files can be of any type and up to 50 GB in size. Once you upload data to Object Storage it can be accessed from anywhere. Use Object Storage when you want to store a very large amount of data that does not change very frequently. Some typical use cases for Object Storage include data backup, file sharing, and storing unstructured data like logs and sensor-generated data.

For more details, see [Overview of Object Storage](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Object/Concepts/objectstorageoverview.htm).

### Bucket

A bucket is a logical container used by Object Storage for storing your data and files. A bucket can contain an unlimited number of objects.

### Object Storage Namespace

Each Oracle Cloud Infrastructure tenant is assigned an Object Storage namespace that spans all compartments within a region. The namespace is a unique and uneditable system-generated string assigned during account creation and applies to all regions. For some older tenancies, the namespace string might be the tenancy name in all lower-case letters.

The Object Storage namespace serves as a container for all of your buckets and objects. You control bucket names within your namespace, however, bucket names must be unique within each region. You can have a bucket named MyBucket in us-phoenix-1 and a bucket named MyBucket in eu-frankfurt-1.

The namespace metadata stores the default compartment assignments for the Amazon S3 Compatibility API and the Swift API. For more information, see [Viewing and Specifying Designated Compartments](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Object/Tasks/designatingcompartments.htm#Viewing).

For more details, see [Understanding Object Storage Namespaces](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Object/Tasks/understandingnamespaces.htm).

## IAM - Identity and Access Management

Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Identity and Access Management (IAM) lets you control who has access to your cloud resources. You can control what type of access a group of users have and to which specific resources. This section gives you an overview of IAM components and an example scenario to help you understand how they work together.

For more information, see [Overview of Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Identity and Access Management](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Identity/Concepts/overview.htm).

### User

An individual employee or system that needs to manage or use your company's Oracle Cloud Infrastructure resources. Users might need to launch instances, manage remote disks, work with your virtual cloud network, etc. End users of your application are not typically IAM users. Users have one or more IAM credentials (see [User Credentials](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Identity/Concepts/usercredentials.htm)).

### Key Pairs

A key pair is an authentication mechanism used by Oracle Cloud Infrastructure. A key pair consists of a private key file and a public key file. You upload your public key to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure. You keep the private key securely on your computer. The private key is private to you, like a password.

Key pairs can be generated according to different specifications. Oracle Cloud Infrastructure uses two types of key pairs for specific purposes:

* Instance SSH Key pair: This key pair is used to establish secure shell (SSH) connection to an instance. When you provision an instance, you provide the public key, which is saved to the instance's authorized key file. To log on to the instance, you provide your private key, which is verified with the public key.
* API signing key pair: This key pair is in PEM format and is used to authenticate you when submitting API requests. Only users who will be accessing Oracle Cloud Infrastructure via the API need this key pair.

For details about the requirements for these key pairs, see [Security Credentials](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/General/Concepts/credentials.htm).

### Auth Token

Auth tokens are Oracle-generated token strings that you can use to authenticate with third-party APIs that do no support Oracle Cloud Infrastructure's signature-based authentication. Each user created in the IAM service automatically has the ability to create, update, and delete their own auth tokens in the Console or the API. An administrator does not need to create a policy to give a user those abilities. Administrators (or anyone with permission to the tenancy) also have the ability to manage auth tokens for other users.

For more details, see [Working with Auth Tokens](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Identity/Tasks/managingcredentials.htm#Working).

### Policy

A document that specifies who can access which resources, and how. Access is granted at the group and compartment level, which means you can write a policy that gives a group a specific type of access within a specific compartment, or to the tenancy itself. If you give a group access to the tenancy, the group automatically gets the same type of access to all the compartments inside the tenancy. For more information, see [Example Scenario](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Identity/Concepts/overview.htm#Example) and [How Policies Work](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Identity/Concepts/policies.htm). The word "policy" is used by people in different ways: to mean an individual statement written in the policy language; to mean a collection of statements in a single, named "policy" document (which has an Oracle Cloud ID (OCID) assigned to it); and to mean the overall body of policies your organization uses to control access to resources.

## Resource Manager

Resource Manager is an Oracle Cloud Infrastructure service that allows you to automate the process of provisioning your Oracle Cloud Infrastructure resources. It helps you install, configure, and manage resources using the "infrastructure-as-code" model.

Resource Manager runs as an Oracle Cloud Infrastructure service and uses Terraform to codify your infrastructure in declarative configuration files, which allows you to review and edit, version, persist, reuse, and share them across teams. You can then use Resource Manager to provision Oracle Cloud Infrastructure resources using your Terraform configurations.

For more details, see [Overview of Resource Manager](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/ResourceManager/Concepts/resourcemanager.htm).

## Container Engine for Kubernetes (OKE)

Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Container Engine for Kubernetes is a fully-managed, scalable, and highly available service that you can use to deploy your containerized applications to the cloud. Use Container Engine for Kubernetes (sometimes abbreviated to just OKE) when your development team wants to reliably build, deploy, and manage cloud-native applications. You specify the compute resources that your applications require, and Container Engine for Kubernetes provisions them on Oracle Cloud Infrastructure in an existing OCI tenancy.

Container Engine for Kubernetes uses Kubernetes - the open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications across clusters of hosts. Kubernetes groups the containers that make up an application into logical units (called pods) for easy management and discovery. Container Engine for Kubernetes uses versions of Kubernetes certified as conformant by the [Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF)](https://github.com/cncf/k8s-conformance).

For more details, see [Overview of Container Engine for Kubernetes](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/ContEng/Concepts/contengoverview.htm).

## Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Registry (OCIR)

Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Registry is an Oracle-managed registry that enables you to simplify your development to production workflow. Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Registry makes it easy for you as a developer to store, share, and manage development artifacts like Docker images. And the highly available and scalable architecture of Oracle Cloud Infrastructure ensures you can reliably deploy your applications. So you don't have to worry about operational issues, or scaling the underlying infrastructure.

For more details, see [Overview of Registry](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Content/Registry/Concepts/registryoverview.htm).
